KBI0004: FAQ: is it normal that files are moved to .git/annex/objects when converting existing data into a DataLad dataset? (#19)
psychoinformatics-de/knowledge-base: kbi/0004/index.rst

.. index:: datalad; faq, datalad; annex, datalad git-annex,
.. highlight:: text

KBI0004: FAQ: is it normal that files are moved to .git/annex/objects when converting existing data into a DataLad dataset?
===========================================================================================================================

:authors: Stephan Heunis <jsheunis@gmail.com> Christian Mönch <christian.moench@web.de>
:discussion: https://github.com/psychoinformatics-de/knowledge-base/pull/9
:keywords: datalad faq, git-annex faq, .git/annex/object, symlink, link

This knowledge-base item explains why files are moved into ``.git/annex/objects``, when
a DataLad dataset is created from an existing dataset, or when a dataset with new files
is saved.

Question:
---------

> When I convert an existing folder to a DataLad dataset, all files are moved to ``./.git/annex/objects/`` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On my Mac or Linux machine, when I convert an existing folder to a DataLad dataset, all files are moved to ``./.git/annex/objects/`` and
```

Maybe hint at this being a common, but still not universal case?

the file at the original location becomes a link to the moved content in ``./.git/annex/objects``. Is this
normal?

Answer:
-------

Yes, this is normal. DataLad manages your data with two main tools: ``git`` and ``git-annex``. The moving and linking is
used by ``git-annex`` to enable ``git`` to work well with very large files. By applying moving and linking, ``git-annex``
ensures that ``git`` only needs to track the links, which are quite small in size. The task of transporting and handling
the data content is performed by ``git-annex``.

This setup creates a modular and portable dataset (the ``git`` repository) which contains information about the versions
and history of data inside the dataset, while the actual data content is managed by ``git-annex``. File content that is
placed under management of ``git-annex`` will be moved into ``./.git/annex/objects/`` and a symbolic link (symlink) to
the content will remain in the original path. This symbolic link will be tracked by ``git``.

The separation of version management (done by ``git``) and content management (done by ``git-annex``)) make a DataLad

> dataset very flexibld. You can for example share the dataset (``git`` repository) publicly, while keeping the contents

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dataset very flexible. You can for example share the dataset (``git`` repository) publicly, while keeping the contents
```

> safe on your cluster. People can then access the dataset (with ``datalad clone``) and download individual files in the

Reviewer: It is probably more accessible to not assume readers know what a "cluster" is in this context, or why one would have one to begin with.

> dataset (with ``datalad get``) if they have access credentials for that location on your cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
dataset (with ``datalad get``) if they have access credentials for that particular storage location.
```

> However, you can use configurations to specify how datalad should commit/manage your data. You might want to commit all

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, you can use configurations to specify how DataLad should commit/manage your data. You might want to commit all
```

your files to ``git`` (unless they are large, too numerous, or unless you don't want to make them available to
everybody who clones the ``git`` repository). You could also let every file be managed by ``git-annex``. Usually only

> large binary files will be managed by ``git-annex`` by default.

Reviewer 2: What kind of default are we talking about in the last sentence? DataLad's default would be to manage all files with git-annex.

Reviewer: Indeed. But given that this is not strictly limited to DataLad, I am simply proposing a removal of that last sentence below.

> everybody who clones the ``git`` repository). You could also let every file be managed by ``git-annex``. Usually only
> large binary files will be managed by ``git-annex`` by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
everybody who clones the ``git`` repository). You could also let every file be managed by ``git-annex``.
```
